.TH LOCATION-TRACKER 1 "June 2026" "location-tracker 1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
location-tracker \- self-hosted location tracking dashboard
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B location-tracker
.I command
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B location-tracker
polls Google Maps location sharing and visualizes movement history on an
interactive web dashboard. It runs as a background daemon with adaptive
polling intervals, encrypted cookie storage, and SQLite-backed history.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS Tracking
.TP
.B on
Start the tracker daemon and web dashboard. Automatically configures DNS
(http://tracker.local) on first run. Uses sudo for port 80.
.TP
.B off
Stop the tracker daemon.
.TP
.B status
Check if the tracker is running and print the dashboard URL.
.SS Authentication
.TP
.B cookies
Open a Chromium browser to Google sign-in. Cookies are detected automatically
when login completes (supports MFA, 15-minute timeout). Cookies are encrypted
at rest using Fernet with the key stored in macOS Keychain.
.TP
.B test
Verify stored cookies are valid by querying the Google API. Lists all shared
contacts if successful.
.SS Configuration
.TP
.B config \-\-email \fIaddress\fR
Set the Google account email used for location sharing.
.TP
.B config
Show current configuration.
.TP
.B setup
Full setup: installs Chromium browser, configures the
.I tracker.local
hostname in /etc/hosts, opens Google sign-in for authentication, starts
the tracker daemon, and opens the dashboard in your browser.
.SS Service Management
.TP
.B install
Install a launchd plist so the tracker starts automatically on login and
restarts on failure.
.TP
.B uninstall
Remove the launchd service.
.TP
.B dns
Manually set up the
.I tracker.local
hostname.
.TP
.B dns-remove
Remove the hostname from /etc/hosts.
.SS Querying Data
.TP
.B where \fIperson\fR
Show the latest known location for a person. Supports partial name matching.
.TP
.B history \fIperson\fR [\-\-days \fIN\fR]
Show recent location history for a person (default: last 1 day, shows last
20 entries). Supports partial name matching.
.TP
.B stats
Print tracking statistics: total distance, number of stops, dwell time,
and date range for each tracked person.
.TP
.B map [\-\-days \fIN\fR] [\-\-output \fIfile\fR]
Generate a static HTML map from collected location data. Defaults to all
time, output to location_map.html.
.TP
.B purge \fIdays\fR
Delete location records older than
.I days
days from the database and vacuum to reclaim space.
.SH ADAPTIVE POLLING
Polling frequency adjusts based on detected movement speed:
.TP
.B Highway (>60 km/h)
Every 15 seconds
.TP
.B Driving (10\-60 km/h)
Every 30 seconds
.TP
.B Walking (1\-10 km/h)
Every 60 seconds
.TP
.B Stationary (<1 km/h)
Every 10 minutes
.SH COOKIE LIFECYCLE
Cookies are captured via browser automation, encrypted with Fernet, and stored
as
.I cookies.enc
in the project directory. The encryption key lives in macOS Keychain under
the account "location-tracker". When cookies expire, the tracker attempts an
automatic headless refresh. If that fails, run
.B location-tracker cookies
to re-authenticate.
.SH DASHBOARD
When running, the web dashboard at http://tracker.local provides:
.IP \(bu 2
Map layers: Road, Satellite, Hybrid, Terrain, Dark
.IP \(bu 2
Views: Path, Heatmap, Points
.IP \(bu 2
Time filtering and timeline scrubber with date labels
.IP \(bu 2
Per-person speed badges and stop detection
.IP \(bu 2
Self-tracking via browser geolocation
.IP \(bu 2
Export as JSON, CSV, or GeoJSON
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/location-tracker/config.json
User configuration (email).
.TP
.I cookies.enc
Encrypted Google authentication cookies.
.TP
.I location_history.db
SQLite database with all location records.
.TP
.I browser_profile/
Persistent Chromium browser profile for cookie refresh.
.TP
.I .tracker.log
Daemon log file (rotated at 10MB).
.TP
.I .tracker.pid
PID file for the running daemon.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B LOCATION_TRACKER_EMAIL
Override the configured Google account email.
.SH SECURITY
Auth cookies are encrypted at rest. The Flask server binds to 127.0.0.1 only.
All user-controlled data is HTML-escaped. Coordinate inputs are validated.
SQLite uses WAL mode for concurrent safety. Plaintext cookies.txt files are
automatically migrated and deleted.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
# Initial setup (one command after config)
location-tracker config --email alice@gmail.com
location-tracker setup

# Daily use
location-tracker on
location-tracker where Alice
location-tracker history Alice --days 3

# Maintenance
location-tracker purge 90
location-tracker install
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
David Condrey <davidcondrey@me.com>
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at https://github.com/dcondrey/location-tracker/issues
.SH LICENSE
MIT License
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR launchctl (1),
.BR pfctl (8),
.BR security (1)
